Scriptharness 0.2.0 Release Notes
=================================

:date: 2015/06/20

Highlights
----------

This release adds :ref:`Command-and-run`, :ref:`ParsedCommand-and-parse`, and :ref:`Output-get_output-and-get_text_output` with output_timeout and max_timeout support.  ParsedCommand supports context lines (see :ref:`OutputBuffer-and-context-lines`).

It also adds :ref:`ConfigTemplates`, which allow for specifying what a well-formed configuration looks like for a script, as well as config validation.

What's New
----------
* More ways to enable and disable actions.  Now, in addition to ``--actions``, there's ``--add-actions``, ``--skip-actions``, and ``--action-group`` to change the set of default actions to run.  (See :ref:`Enabling-and-Disabling-Actions`.)

* Added Command_ object with cross-platform output_timeout and max_timeout support, with a `run()`_ wrapper function for easier use.  This is for running external tools with timeouts.  (See :ref:`Command-and-run`.)

    * Added ScriptHarnessTimeout_ exception

* Added ParsedCommand_ subclass of Command_.  Also added a `parse()`_ wrapper function for easier use.  This is for running external tools, and parsing the output of those tools to detect errors. (See :ref:`ParsedCommand-and-parse`.)

    * Added ErrorList_, OutputParser_ objects for ParsedCommand_ error parsing.  (See :ref:`ErrorLists-and-OutputParser`.)
    * Added OutputBuffer_ object for ParsedCommand_ context lines support.  (See :ref:`OutputBuffer-and-context-lines`.)

* Added Output_ object with cross-platform output_timeout and max_timeout support.  Also added `get_output()`_, and `get_text_output()`_ wrapper functions for easier use.  This is for capturing the output of an external tool for later use.  (See :ref:`Output-get_output-and-get_text_output`.)

* Added ConfigVariable_ and ConfigTemplate_ objects for configuration definition and validation support.  See :ref:`ConfigTemplates`.

* Added documentation.

* Script.actions is now a namedtuple

* test_config.py no longer hardcodes port 8001.

* Split a number of modules out.

* 100% coverage

* pylint 10.00

* `Current issues`_ are tracked on GitHub.

.. note:: If you've cloned python-scriptharness 0.1.0, you may need to remove the ``scriptharness/commands`` directory, as it will conflict with the new ``scriptharness/commands.py`` module.


.. _Command: scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.Command
.. _ConfigTemplate: scriptharness.config.html#scriptharness.config.ConfigTemplate
.. _ConfigVariable: scriptharness.config.html#scriptharness.config.ConfigVariable
.. _Current issues: https://github.com/scriptharness/python-scriptharness/issues
.. _ErrorList: scriptharness.errorlists.html#scriptharness.errorlists.ErrorList
.. _Output: scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.Output
.. _OutputBuffer: scriptharness.log.html#scriptharness.log.OutputBuffer
.. _OutputParser: scriptharness.log.html#scriptharness.log.OutputParser
.. _ParsedCommand: scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.ParsedCommand
.. _ScriptHarnessTimeout: scriptharness.exceptions.html#scriptharness.exceptions.ScriptHarnessTimeout
.. _get_output(): scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.get_output
.. _get_text_output(): scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.get_text_output
.. _parse(): scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.parse
.. _run(): scriptharness.commands.html#scriptharness.commands.run
